playback/README.md, before:

playbacks
=========

*Scripts to support playbacks in SeisComP 3*

There are many different objectives for doing playbacks and
therefore different mechanisms that can be used.

* Full waveform playback

  Waveform playbacks innvolve the processing of a data time window
that can range in length from just minutes to years. Short playbacks
are usually made for testing (incl. stress tests) or demo purposes.
Long playbacks are used for offline processing of large quantities
of waveforms. This is typically the case after a seismological field
experiment has been finalized and the waveform data shall be
analyzed for local seismicity.


* Parameter-only playback

  Waveform playbacks are relatively "heavy" as the full waveform
processing requires a lot of system resources. In some cases,
especially for testing and debugging, much lighter parameter-only
playbacks are preferred because they are much easier to run ad hoc
and repeeatedly. This kind of playback is particularly useful for
modules like scautoloc, which doesn't process waveforms directly.
Instead it only processes picks and amplitudes previously measured
by a picker like scautopick. Both picks and amplitudes are usually
static. This means that they are determined once and are unlikely to
change later on. Therefore we can retrieve these objects from the
database and simulate the real-time processing by using the object
creation time to reproduce (and possibly debug) the real-time
behaviour. This works by reading the picks and amplitudes from an
XML file, sorting them according to their creation times and
playing them back in that order.



Content:

* xml/
    XML based parameter playback (mainly for picks/amplitudes)
    primarily for testing and debugging of scautoloc

* notifier/
    XML based parameter playbacks using notifier logs.

* mseed/
    generation of sorted, multiplexed MiniSEED files suitable for
    full waveform playback in SeisComP 3

Commit message:

some more info on notifier playbacks

playback/README.md, after:

playbacks
=========

*Scripts to support playbacks in SeisComP 3*

There are many different objectives for doing playbacks and
therefore different mechanisms that can be used.

* Full waveform playback

  Waveform playbacks innvolve the processing of a data time window
that can range in length from just minutes to years. Short playbacks
are usually made for testing (incl. stress tests) or demo purposes.
Long playbacks are used for offline processing of large quantities
of waveforms. This is typically the case after a seismological field
experiment has been finalized and the waveform data shall be
analyzed for local seismicity.


* Parameter-only playback

  Waveform playbacks are relatively "heavy" as the full waveform
processing requires a lot of system resources. In some cases,
especially for testing and debugging, much lighter parameter-only
playbacks are preferred because they are much easier to run ad hoc
and repeatedly. This kind of playback is particularly useful for
modules like scautoloc, which doesn't process waveforms directly.
Instead it only processes picks and amplitudes previously measured
by a picker like scautopick. Both picks and amplitudes are usually
static. This means that they are determined once and are unlikely to
change later on. Therefore we can retrieve these objects from the
database and simulate the real-time processing by using the object
creation time to reproduce (and possibly debug) the real-time
behaviour. This works by reading the picks and amplitudes from an
XML file, sorting them according to their creation times and
playing them back in that order.

This kind of parametric playback is very easy to generate from the
database. In fact it could even be generated from the database on
the fly. But it will only work to play back static objects like
amplitudes, picks and even origins, and only as long as they can be
assumed to be static. Other object types like events and network
magnitudes get updated during the processing and therefore cannot be
played back. This is because the final state of these objects in the
database does not usually reflect their evolution. Overwriting them
in the database means information loss. A much more complete history
of an event can be captured by logging notifier messages. There will
likely be support for this in SC3 and some Python scripts to
demonstrate the power of this mechanism are included here already.
The idea is to subscribe to all relevant messaging groups and grab
all notifier messages that come around. Each received notifier
message is saved as XML document to a notifier log. Each log entry
is preceded by a header line containing a time stamp for
synchonization and the length of the following XML document in
bytes. This log will have to be run continuously and stored e.g. in
day files.



Content:

* mseed/

    generation of sorted, multiplexed MiniSEED files suitable for
    full waveform playback in SeisComP 3

* xml/

    XML based parameter playback (mainly for picks/amplitudes)
    primarily for testing and debugging of scautoloc

* notifier/

    XML based parameter playbacks using notifier logs. Highly
    experimental
